#Executive Summary
The purpose of the **AndrinoIME** is to implement an input method editor (IME) for Android
devices that is customized for use in typing JavaScript source code.

##What makes a JavaScript IME?

There are at least four approaches to making a JavaScript friendly IME.  In order of
feasibility of implementation they are:

###Rethink the keyboard
If you've ever tried to deal with JavaScript source code using other IMEs, you've no
doubt encountered the frustration of finding the various symbols needed.  They are
frequently scattered across several keyboards and it can be very tedious to switch back
and forth between them.

However, upon close examination, it turns out that with minimal stretch-to-fit action, the digits
 and symbols can easily fit on a single keyboard, the 26 lower-case letters can fit on another,
 with a 3rd keyboard reserved for the 26 upper-case letters, while still leaving a bit of room
 for other random and required keys.

###Most recently used symbols
The **AndrinoIME** also provides a keyboard composed of the most recently used digits,
symbols, and letters.

###Keyword suggestions
The **AndrinoIME** offers keyword suggestions, and only that.  No need for these suggestions
to get lost in the clutter of all the other words in the language.

###Identifier suggestions
Well, maybe not keywords only.  The **AndrinoIME** also suggests identifiers that are
presently defined.  However, this feature will only function with software specifically
designed to communicate information about said identifiers to the IME.  Please see
  [**Andrino**](https://github.com/bostontrader/andrino) for an example.

###Statement auto-completion
You wish.  Maybe someday.

##The Saga

Finding suitable documentation and examples proved to be remarkably difficult.  It's
not too difficult to find the SoftKeyboard sample from the Android SDK.  Unfortunately,
it's too simple, it doesn't come with any tests, and it doesn't seem to have attracted
any developer attention in its five year lifetime.  Hence no updates.
I looked at a few other forgettable examples that were obvious knock-offs of SoftKeyboard
and they all suffered from the same issues.

I finally tried out the [CyanogenMod LatinIME](https://github.com/CyanogenMod/android_packages_inputmethods_LatinIME)
This ROX! And it has lots and lots of tests to dissect and study.  The only problem is that's
a monster!  The repo is about 500mb. It has all sorts of provisions for various locales
and accessibility.  This is all fine-and-dandy you might think, until you wade into
it to figure it out.  The complexity of dealing with all of this requires a poorly-documented
Devil's brew of XML, parsers, styling, themes, locales, enumerations, and collections.  There's
 even one lump of this that's generated by other source code!

Individually none of these things are rocket-science.  But collectively, there are a lot of moving
parts just to make a seemingly simple keyboard!

In order to actually do this I've started with a handful of the Cyanogen tests and copy-n-pasted
original source code into this project, in order to get the tests to pass.  I'm freely
commenting out whatever is not tested/necessary, so this code still has a lot of that.

So I'm presently working on two fronts.  Can I put techniques from the Cyanogen IME to good use
on the much simpler SoftKeyboard?  SoftKeyboard presently "works" except that it's not very well
tested and it doesn't hear my suggestions when I click on them.  Can I remove enough of the
complicated bits from Cyanogen for it to be usable by me?  Cyanogen certainly looks more
promising than SoftKeyboard, except that it doesn't actually display (in its presently
incomplete condition) any useful UI.

Hopefully one of these will methods will eventually succeed. Stay tuned and find out.